# Smart Farm

**CmpE272 Team Project**  
**_SJSU_**

## Synopsis

The focus of this project is on encouraging farmers and industries to adopt the crop rotation technique, which is considered as a sustainable farming method, rather than monocropping. 
Smart Farm is an interactive web application through which agricultural data and statistics from official resources such as United States Department of Agriculture National Agricultural Statistics Service (USDA NASS) are collected, analyzed, and presented in a user-friendly and easy to read format.

## Motivation

Monocropping is widely used in industrial crop production. Utilizing monocropping techniques, results in reduction of crop production costs and it is mainly due to the reuse of pesticides and specialized farm and planting equipment. Another factor that encourages farmers to opt in for monocropping is the subsidization of commodity crops. However, monocropping is unsustainable. It can lead to long-term environmental problems such as pollution and loss of soil quality.  

The challenge is how to encourage farmers and industries to choose more sustainable farming methods including the crop rotation method. One of the problems farmers face in order to apply the crop rotation technique is to choose the right crop for the next rotations.  

There is a vast amount of data generated by sensors or collected by officials periodically such as the agricultural statistics information provided by United States Department of Agriculture National Agricultural Statistics Service  (USDA NASS). As one can see the issue here is that the data is not presented to the farmers and farming industry owners in a user-friendly and easy to understand and compare format.  

Collecting and analyzing the **USDA NASS** crop data of specific regions selected by the user on the map, Smart Farm presents the end users with charts and graphs of popular crops and their price trends.  


## How it works

User Interface (UI) of the Smart Farm provides a map using **_Google Maps API_**. 

* Choose a location on the map. The location can be anywhere in **United States**. You can either **click** or **drag** the marker on the map.
* Smart Farm provides a bar chart presenting a list of mostly harvested crops in the past years in that land based on acreage. 
* The geographical level that Smart Farm works with at this point is **county level**. Smart Farm finds the county of selected locations on the map based on their latitude and longitude.
* Smart Farm also provides information about the price trends of the crops in the last five years. 
* In order to see the price trend graph of the last years for each crop, **click on the buttons** presented by Smart Farm for each crop.
* Data presented in charts and graphs is reset according to user interactions within milliseconds so that users do not have to wait for long and therefore they have the best experience.

## Future releases

This is the first release of Smart Farm.

In the future releases of the Smart Farm project, more environmental factors such weather condition histories and soil types of regions are going to be integrated into the application.  
In addition to that, an important deciding factor that is subsidy is going to be analyzed and presented through the UI of the app for which official data needs to be collected and put in a readable and relevant format.  
Furthermore, during our research for data, we came across sparse data regarding crop rotation plans. Depending on the availability and amount of such data, the Smart Farm application can be extended to suggest crop rotation plans based on the regions selected by the users.

## Implementation

The **_MEAN_** stack was used to develop the Smart Farm application.  
The MEAN stack makes use of MongoDB, Express.js, Angular.js, and Node.js.

## Contributors

* _Baharath Kumar Narahari_
* _Danhua Yang_
* _Yassaman Zand Moghaddam_
* _Taruna Kukreja_




## License
Smart Farm is available as a free open source application and the source code is available in the public GitHub repository.  






